Revelation chapter number three,
often when we sing that song and think about that last verse,
I think about Peter in Acts chapter number 12
and what peace of, the peace of God he had
as he's asleep between two prison guards,
just having the peace of God and in that trial
and that situation, and I'm thankful that God leads
and it is our responsibility to follow where he leads us.
We're in chapter number three this evening
and last week we looked at part number one
of the church of the Laodiceans.
We looked at verses 14 through 17
and while we noted that portion of scripture,
we understood that God reminded the church
of the Laodiceans of his position and of his power
and we were reminded that he introduces
as he's writing to them in verse number 14,
he's telling John to write this.
He says, these things saith the amen
and we made note of the name that is used there
and the significance of what the Lord Jesus Christ
is communicating to this church
and it was that what he says is so
and the message that he was gonna deliver to this church
was not a message that anyone would like to receive.
He has nothing to commend them for
but he has much to correct them for.
We find that the message, we looked last week
and we found that this church,
they were on a faulty path
and they were on a path that was led
by their faulty perspective.
They had this self-reliance
and this self-deception was going on
because of their self-reliance
and we find that as we concluded the message last week
that we said this, it is unfortunate yet I believe true
that as you study church history,
there are far too many churches
that mirror the behavior of what we see
of the church of the Laodiceans
and I said this, it's a frequent path
but it doesn't have to be.
We can in 2025, we can be a church that honors God,
we can be a church that we determine
and we commit to doing God's work, God's way
and we can have God's blessing,
we can have revival,
we can have God's spirit present in our midst
and we are to worship him in spirit and in truth
and we find this evening that we can rejoice
in knowing that though the condition
as it's presented to us in Revelation 3
of the church of the Laodiceans,
though the condition is dim and unfortunate,
not every church has to mirror this condition
and I'm thankful for that
and I rejoice in that.
We'll be looking at verse 18
down through verse number 22 this evening
as we consider part two this evening.
Notice as we begin reading in verse 18,
the Bible says this, I counsel thee.
Remember, John is writing but he's writing from the Lord,
the one who is the amen as he said in verse 14,
the one who is faithful,
who is the faithful and the true witness,
the one who is the owner and possessor,
creator of all things,
the beginning of the creation of God.
He says in verse 18, I counsel thee.
Now, counsel is something that's interesting.
Counsel is only profitable when it's taken heed.
Counsel is given.
We find in verse 18 that he says, I counsel thee.
Notice what he's gonna counsel them to do,
really three things here in verse 18.
I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire
that thou mayest be rich and white raiment
that thou mayest be clothed
and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear
and anoint thine eyes with eyes of that thou mayest see.
As many, verse 19, as I love, I rebuke and chase
and be zealous therefore and repent.
Behold, I stand at the door and knock.
If any man hear my voice and open the door,
I will come into him and will sup with him
and he with me.
To him that overcometh will I grant
to sit with me in my throne even as I also overcame
and am set down with my father in his throne.
Aren't you thankful that he conquered sin,
death, and the grave?
He overcame it all.
He is victorious, amen, and what a blessing.
But thanks be to God which giveth us the victory.
How does he give us victory?
Because he is victorious.
Verse 22, he that hath an ear,
let him hear what the Spirit sayeth unto the churches.
As we get into the text this evening,
I want you to note first of all,
from verse number 18, note the counsel.
I've read the text of scripture,
but we find that in verse 18 that the Lord Jesus Christ,
after communicating to this church of their true condition,
remember he tells them that they're lukewarm.
He tells them that he knows their works.
Thou art neither cold nor hot.
I would thou work cold or hot in verse 15.
Verse 16, so then because thou art lukewarm
and neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of thy mouth.
He tells them in verse 17, here's what you say.
I am rich, increased with goods, have need of nothing.
But we find that God says that you do not know,
and knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable
and poor and blind and naked.
And so after revealing their true condition,
the amen, what he says is so,
he now is going to provide them with counsel.
Note with me, they don't ask for counsel,
but God gives counsel.
And it's a good thing to ask for counsel,
but I'm thankful that God, and what a truth about our God,
he's always pursuing his people.
He's always pursuing his people.
You know, God wants to have a close fellowship with you,
but he doesn't make you have a close fellowship with him.
He wants it, he desires it.
He wants you to have that close fellowship with him,
but he does not force himself upon you.
And we find that he gives counsel,
and all of the counsel that he gives
is good counsel, by the way.
He only can give good counsel.
And he gives this counsel, and he tells them three things.
It's interesting to note what the Lord tells
the believers in this church.
He says, first of all, to buy gold tried in the fire.
That's very interesting because you understand
that as you look in verse 17,
their perspective, their own idea of their condition
was that I am rich and increased with goods.
And God says to them,
to buy of me gold tried in the fire.
I mentioned last Sunday evening
how that this church could be referred to
as the rich, poor church.
Oh, they were rich from a world's perspective,
maybe monetarily, but they were lacking
in the treasures that God has for us.
You find that the Bible talks about,
the psalmist reveals to us about the great delight
and joy that he has in studying and reading God's word.
Why?
Because he's finding as some that would find great treasure.
Oh, I'm thankful for the riches that we have in Christ.
I said last week that we have in Christ
what money cannot buy us.
We find that he says, buy of me.
Notice he says, buy of me gold tried in the fire
that thou mayest be rich.
The perspective of the world and the perspective of God
is often quite different.
We find that here God says to them in giving this counsel,
here's the first thing that you need to do.
You need to buy gold that is of me
that is tried in the fire that thou mayest be rich.
But remember, they're already saying that they are rich.
He says, no, your perspective is faulty
and you need to understand
what the real important things are of life.
Our world places value on things that God does not value.
Amen?
And it is absolutely imperative
that we as the people of God place proper value
on what God places value upon.
We find that God gives them this counsel.
He continues with the counsel in verse 18.
Notice he says, and white raiment.
Notice what he says, that thou mayest be clothed
and the shame of thy nakedness do not appear.
We find that he's giving them this counsel to buy gold
and now to buy white raiment.
And we begin to think about the Lord making this statement
and giving this counsel.
He told them, I know their works.
He's aware of their condition.
And now he's telling them
that they need to buy this white raiment.
Notice that thou mayest be clothed.
I think of what Paul says when he talks about
not being clothed with his own righteousness,
but with the righteousness of Christ.
I think about having, as we know the white raiment,
and you study that throughout the book of Revelation
and you understand the purity, the holiness, if you will,
and you understand here this evening
that the Lord is giving them counsel
that is contrary to what they have been practicing
in their life, the direction in which they've gone.
And God is saying, no, listen,
I'm going to give you counsel.
You've put value.
You've placed an emphasis on things that do not matter.
You need to have a change of perspective.
You need to get my perspective,
is what God is saying to this church.
He says that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear.
We find that he ends here at the end of verse 18 with the council,
the third part of the council is to anoint thine eyes with eyesalve that thou mayest see.
Now think about that just for a moment. Think about being the original recipient,
somebody in the church there of the Laodiceans, and you're receiving this letter,
and you're saying, hold on a minute, I already have riches,
but God's telling me to buy this gold that he's speaking of that I might be rich.
I'm already clothed, but he's telling me to buy this white raiment.
I already can see, but he's telling me to anoint mine eyes.
It's a worldly church, a church that was on a faulty path because of a faulty perspective,
and they needed some counsel.
The three main areas of industry in Laodicea,
if you study history and look at some things, there are three main areas of industry.
One was banking, one was the textile industry, and one was medicines.
And you find that each of those three things are targeted in this counsel that God gives
because what was happening is they thought that their trust that was in their own wealth,
their own banking industry, the textile industry, the medications and medicines,
the salves that they had, that that was where they had their confidence.
And God's saying, no, your perspective's wrong. He gives them counsel.
I would submit to you this evening that God's word is an open book of God's counsel to us as his people.
I'm so thankful for God's word. Turn back to Psalm 19, if you will.
And oftentimes we go to Psalm 119, but I want you to look at Psalm 19.
Psalm 119 is just a wonderful chapter in God's word that just deals with just the rejoicing of the psalmist
because of having God's word.
When we look at Psalm 19, and it's kind of a condensed version, if you will,
there's nowhere near as many verses here, but I want you to look at just the center section,
if you will, here in Psalm 19, and I want you to see what the psalmist says.
It's a psalm that's ascribed to David.
And notice what he says in verse number seven, the law of the Lord is perfect.
The law of the Lord is perfect. Notice what it says, converting the soul.
The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple.
We think about conversion. We think about the truth of being saved.
We're born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the word of God,
which liveth and abideth forever, according to what Peter tells us.
We think about the simple here, and he talks about how the testimonies of the Lord is sure,
making wise the simple. This book is a book of counsel.
It tells us in verse eight, the statutes of the Lord are, what does it say, right.
The time, the period of the judges, every man was doing that which was right in his own eyes.
But God's word is always right.
My perspective and your perspective may be flawed, it may be faulty,
but God's perspective is always right. God's word is always right.
And he's given this counsel to the church of the Laodiceans, to the people there,
because they need God's counsel and God's statutes are right.
They rejoice the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes.
The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever.
The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether.
And then notice in verse 10, more to be desired are they than gold.
What is he referring to? The they that he's referring to is the law, the Lord, the testimony, the statutes.
And he says that more to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold,
sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb.
Moreover, notice what it says in verse number 11, by them is thy servant warned,
and in keeping of them there is great reward.
The people in Laodicea, they had a temporal perspective.
Oh, they thought they had wealth physically.
They thought they had great raiments physically.
They thought they could see physically.
But God says spiritually, spiritually.
Remember what he says to them as we looked at it last week,
you're wretched, miserable, poor, blind and naked.
Wow, what an indictment.
So understanding their true condition, that they were wretched and miserable, poor, blind and naked,
God deals with those last three, poor, blind and naked, in the counsel that he gives.
And that condition of being poor, blind and naked lead to being wretched and miserable.
And he tells them, you're to buy of me gold that's tried in the fire.
Why? That thou mayest be rich.
You're naked, and so therefore buy of me white raiment that thou mayest be clothed,
and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear.
You're blind, and so therefore anoint thine eyes with eyesalve that thou mayest see.
What good counsel that is.
What good counsel we find here to the church of the Laodiceans.
We note, first of all, the counsel as we continue through the text.
We note, number two, the chastening.
In verse number 19, God gives to us, reveals to us,
something that has been previously discussed throughout his word.
In fact, you can go all the way back to Proverbs, and we'll look at it just briefly.
You can see in the book of Psalms, you can see broadly in the book of Hebrews,
this truth of chastening.
And we note in verse number 19, notice what the Bible says,
as many as I love, I rebuke and chasten.
You know what God reminds the people of? He reminds them that he loves them.
Aren't you thankful for God's love?
What a joy to know the love of Christ.
To know that there's nothing that can separate me from God's love.
We rejoice this evening in knowing that God loves us,
but notice, because he loves us, as many as I love, notice, I rebuke and chasten.
It is the truth of God's word that because he loves us,
he rebukes and he chastens.
He loves you too much. He loves me too much to leave us to ourselves and to our own resources.
He's going to rebuke and he's going to chasten.
He gives that counsel.
And we find this evening that God is reminding not only the church of the Laodiceans,
but we find that he's reminding every church of these seven churches
and every church throughout the church age that would read the book of Revelation,
he's reminding them that we can't just go off and do our own thing
and do our own work the way that we want to do it.
No, God loves us and he's going to chasten. He's going to rebuke.
I made this comment not long ago,
and the reality is that when God is going to work in our lives
and he's bringing some level in our lives using his word to convict us,
that conviction is good. It's good for us.
Notice with me in Proverbs chapter 3, if you will,
we'll look at just a few verses where this progressive truth is given to us through the Bible.
In Proverbs chapter 3, and when you think of that chapter,
no doubt your mind races to verses 5 and 6.
But I want to remind you that in Proverbs chapter 3, verses 11 and 12,
notice what God tells us.
Proverbs 3 and verse 11,
Notice Psalm 94, if you will.
Psalm 94 and verse number 12, we know that the psalmist says it this way,
dealing with the truth of the chastening of the Lord.
I'll read verse 11 along with it.
Psalm 94, verse 11 and verse number 12.
The Bible says this in verse 11.
The Lord knoweth the thoughts of man that they are vanity.
God knows your thoughts. He knows my thoughts.
Blessed is the man whom thou chastenest, O Lord,
and teachest him out of thy law,
that thou mayest give him rest from the days of adversity
until the pit be digged for the wicked.
Think about this. It says, blessed is the man whom thou chastenest.
We ought to start thanking God for the chastening of God, the correction of God.
He says here to the church of the Laodiceans that who he loves,
he rebukes and he chastens.
Look in Hebrews chapter 12, if you will.
And it's a familiar passage of scripture here.
In fact, a number of years ago when we had as our theme counter blessings
and throughout that calendar year, I preached messages on reasons to rejoice.
And we had all sorts of reasons to rejoice.
It was a very topical type of a study throughout that calendar year.
And near the end of the year, I said that we ought to learn to rejoice for the chastening of God.
And I preached from this passage of scripture in Hebrews chapter 12.
In verse number four, the Bible says this,
you have not yet resisted unto blood's trials,
against sin, and you've forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children.
My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked
of him.
For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth.
If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons.
For what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not?"
You know, it's really a birthmark of a believer that God would chasten us.
You know, it's an evidence of your salvation that God chastens you, that God doesn't just
leave you to do whatever you want to do and lean on your own understanding and go down
your own path.
No, God will deal with you.
He will chasten you.
I believe that as you look in the passage, it says this in verse 8, but if ye be without
chastisement whereof all are partakers, what a great parenthetical statement by the way,
we're all partakers, then are ye bastards and not sons.
What's he saying?
Well, the Lord only chastens those that are his.
Sometimes if we're not careful, we can be like Asaph and say, look at the wicked, look
at how they're living, look at how they're prospering, why aren't they facing?
God says, they're not my children, they're not my children.
I chasten my own, I chasten my own.
He says in verse 9, furthermore, we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us and
we gave them reverence.
What is the author doing?
He's helping us understand this spiritual truth by relating it to a natural, a physical
truth, a reality.
I remember I was corrected as a child.
By the way, I responded to the correction of my own parents.
I wouldn't respond well to correction from someone that wasn't my parent.
I'm not talking in a rebellious way, I'm somebody that wanted to treat me like I was their child.
I don't go around disciplining your children because they're not my children, amen?
And here we find that he says using this illustration and helping to drive home the point, he says
that we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us and we gave them reverence.
Shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the father of spirits and live?
For they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure.
But notice this phrase, he for our profit, that we might be partakers of his holiness.
Now, no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous.
Listen, if you've ever experienced the chastening hand of God, you will agree wholeheartedly
with verse number 11.
It's not joyous.
We take that step back and we say, oh God, thank you for dealing with me.
Thank you for correcting me.
Thank you for that conviction, the work of the Holy Spirit in your life and in my life.
He says, but grievous nevertheless afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness
unto them which are exercised thereby.
God says to these, he refers to the church of the Laodiceans.
He says, I counsel thee.
We note the counsel.
We note the chastening.
He says, as many as I love, I rebuke and chasten.
For this evening, how do we deal with God when he rebukes us, when he chastens us?
How do we respond to that?
Do we respond properly?
Do we respond well?
As we look at the remainder of verse 19 and down through the chapter, I note this number
three, the choice.
Why do I call it the choice?
Well in verse number 19, excuse me, in verse number 18, he says, I counsel thee.
But in verse number 19, to end the verse, he says, be zealous therefore and repent.
Now that's a choice that everyone has to make.
It's a choice.
Are we going to receive and respond properly to the counsel?
The counsel is given.
By the way, it's perfect counsel.
It's good counsel.
It's the Lord Jesus Christ, the amen, what he says is so.
And he says, I counsel thee.
And then he says, be zealous therefore and repent.
Can I tell you this evening that God is not going to force the people in Laodicea, he's
not going to force you and he's not going to force me to repent.
It's a choice that you make.
If you follow down and continue the path of disobedience and self-reliance and self-sufficiency,
you will continue to lose the blessing of God.
You will continue to deal with the chastening of the Lord.
And the reality is that the Bible tells us in 1 Corinthians chapter 11 that some die
because they don't respond to the chastening of God.
For this cause, many are asleep.
Does that not what the Bible tells us?
And so we find this evening that he says, be zealous therefore and repent.
But you know that he's not going to force you to repent.
He didn't force you to get saved and he's not going to force you to repent.
He counsels you to.
It's a choice that you must make.
It's a choice that I must make.
Am I going to go God's way?
Am I going to follow God's path?
Am I going to follow God's counsel?
Or am I going to just continue to do things my way?
Am I going to continue to lean on my own understanding?
Am I going to continue to enjoy this temporal level of benefit and of comfort?
Am I going to do things God's way?
There's a choice to be made.
And we see it in verse 18 and verse 19.
We see it again in verse number 20.
Notice with me in verse 20, I alluded to this verse last week.
And so often it's a verse that's used within the context of talking with lost people and
maybe in a soul winning type of a conversation.
But the reality is that contextually, it has absolutely nothing to do with that.
Is everything to do with the head of the church, the Lord Jesus Christ, standing on the outside
of his church?
No, he purchased the church with his own blood, did he not?
Acts chapter 20.
He's the rightful owner.
What did he say in Matthew 16?
I will build your church?
Is that what he said?
No, he said, I will build my church, amen?
He's the head of the church.
It's his rightful place.
And we find this evening that in verse number 20, he, Jesus, the one that is the head of
the church, the one who purchased it with his own blood, he said, I stand at the door
and knock.
What is the picture that's being given to the people of Laodicea?
The picture is that Jesus is on the outside.
Listen, if you're on the inside and others are on the inside, you're not knocking on
the door.
He's on the outside of his own church and he's knocking on the door and he says, I stand
at the door and knock.
Do you see his patient pursuit of his people?
He loves us.
He created us to have fellowship with him.
He wants us to be in his presence because in his presence is fullness of joy, but he
never forces himself upon us.
We make decisions.
Obviously we're here this evening on a Sunday evening.
We made a decision of our own will to come and to worship together and we make those
decisions.
You made a decision today on whether you were going to spend time with God and his word
or not.
You're going to make a decision tomorrow on whether you're going to spend time with God
and his word or not and the reality is that God doesn't force us to.
He wants us to.
It's as if he's waiting there for us and will you stop and will you fellowship with me or
we hurry through our day and just go along and just do things our way and he says I stand
at the door and knock.
If any man hear my voice and notice this, this is the choice and open the door and open
the door.
Have you ever had somebody come to your door and you didn't want to open it?
Come on.
Listen, we go door knocking.
If you have a ring camera, I wish that company didn't exist.
You know why?
No one wants to answer their door when we knock on their door.
They got this ring camera and they see us at the door.
They don't know who we are and they say, if they say, can I help you?
Yeah, I'm Chris.
This is whoever I'm with and we're from Fellowship Baptist Church just out in the area visiting
some folks and not interested.
You don't even have an opportunity to talk to them.
But before they had ring cameras, somebody knock on your door, shh, be quiet.
Don't let them know we're home, you deceiver, right?
Why?
Because you didn't want to open the door.
I've gone to doors that have these signs.
Some of them just say no soliciting.
We joked about a neighborhood we were in just a few weeks ago and I said, I think someone
was going door to door to sell no soliciting signs.
Because it seemed like we got into this one stretch of this neighborhood and every single
door had a no soliciting sign on it.
And I thought somebody was selling those things, man.
They were selling them door to door, amen?
And here's the deal.
I've seen signs that say, I already have a vacuum.
I already know Jesus.
I already have insurance.
I already have whatever.
And they got all those things listed out
of people that would normally go door to door.
Do any of you remember when guys would go,
Hoover guys go and sell, right?
The, Kimberly, your dad used to sell Rainbow, right?
It's a vacuum cleaner.
I have one.
It's a great vacuum cleaner.
But they would literally kind of go door to door
to try to sell their product.
And so these signs say, I already have a vacuum.
It just makes me laugh when I see it.
But what I'm saying is that you have to open the door.
Jesus, the God of the universe,
the one who the preacher preached about this morning
that is worthy, the one who created us,
the one who has redeemed us,
he stands at the door and he knocks and he says,
if any man notice, he says,
if they hear my voice and open the door,
notice the wonderful fellowship.
I will come into him and will sup with him and he with me.
Wow, now on the flip side,
have you ever been anxiously awaiting someone's arrival?
I mean, you knew that a visitor was coming,
maybe it was a relative and before the day of GPS
and when they could send their notification
and let you know with quite precision
as to the time of their arrival,
you would be anxiously awaiting their arrival, why?
Because you wanted to open the door.
It was almost as if they didn't even have to knock
at the door because you were ready for their arrival.
This evening, the Church of the Laodiceans,
every church has a choice to make.
We make choices every day, don't we?
I said this to someone two weeks,
no decision is still a decision.
No response is still a response, right?
It really is.
You dig into that and you think about that.
We find here, this church, they received counsel.
They were dealing with chastening.
They had a choice to make.
It's unfortunate, but God's word talks about the fact
that we can grieve and quench the Holy Spirit.
We can grieve and we can quench the Holy Spirit,
where we ought to be sensitive to the voice of God.
We ought to be sensitive to his chastening in our lives
and his counsel and his correction
and that we ought to be quick to take heed to the counsel
because counsel is only profitable
when we take heed to the counsel.
And this is good counsel because it's God's counsel.
We find the promise again that's mentioned in verse 21
that we've seen with many of these churches
with regard to having victory
into the millennial reign of Christ.
And then it ends with that familiar verse
that we've seen with each of these churches.
He that hath an ear, let him hear
what the Spirit saith unto the churches.
Not only do we need to hear, but we need to do.
Be doers of the word and not hearers only.
Take a lesson from the church of the Laodiceans.
As we spent these two weeks looking at these various aspects
God tells them, here's your true condition.
And then in his great love and his wisdom,
he says, I'm gonna give you a counsel.
Let me give you a counsel.
By the way, the sooner we take heed to the counsel,
the less chastening we have to experience.
Amen?
Is that not true for your children
or for you when you were a child?
Amen?
If you do it again, here's what's gonna happen.
Did any of you ever hear that as a child?
I heard it.
I think my dad's watching live stream tonight.
He didn't even have to say the words, he just did this.
And I knew that this meant if you do it again,
it's a problem.
I did.
And so the sooner I corrected my behavior,
the sooner I took heed to the counsel,
no more chastening.
I'm thankful that God loves us enough to chasten us,
but oh, that we'd respond to his counsel
and that we'd make the right choice,
that we'd repent and that we would open the door,
have that fellowship with him, that sweet communion.
What a joy.
The God of the universe,
the one who spoke it all into existence,
the one who knows everything,
he wants to have fellowship with you.
Man, it's amazing.
Oh, that God would help us to learn from the message
that was given to the Church of the Laodiceans.
Let us pray.
Lord, we love you.
Thank you for loving us.
Thank you, God, for your word.
I pray, Lord, that you would help us
to be doers of the word and not hearers only.
God, I pray that if there's some area in our lives
where we have
gotten self-sufficient, self-reliant,
deceived,
carnal,
worldly,
temporal,
God, would you help us
to take heed to the counsel,
to make the right choice?
God, you would help us to live in such a way
that you'd be honored and glorified.
Would you move and work in these moments of invitation
as only you can?
For it's in Christ's name we pray.
Would you stand?